# Defiance
I would like to create a visual experience showing Government surveillance, a huge topic right now especially around COVID and tracing people. The term ‘big brother’ is used a lot throughout society to talk about the intense surveillance we have in this modern society. I also want to look at defiance and how people just want to be free from certain controlling forces, this will fit well with government surveillance as a lot of people are defiant on some rules put in place in modern society. For example, people assume that the QR codes we use for track and trace is all being shared with the government when in reality it’s just being stored on our personal devices yet it is causing outrage and making people think the government is spying on us and using this to watch our every move. I would like to use this as the basis for my speculative design.  Based far into the future, after a pandemic has happened, the tracing of QR codes is still around even though the pandemic has stopped. The government has realised that they can still track people and say to ensure the safety of the population and to stop other outbreaks quicker we must comply and do what they say for surveillance needs. Well I say no more! We are a team trying to stop the government tracking and the false lies that they are telling all. To make things easier everyone has a wrist band that scans the codes attached to buildings which are being painted on, as they are now a permeant feature of our lives, your wrist band scans the code even when walking past so every move is checked. In reality the people think they have a choice, they think it’s only scanning what they want but they are wrong, as the wristband is constantly on. Our job is to be defiant by stopping this occurrence, which will involve painting over the governments QR codes and adding our own, sending the information scanned back to the people and allowing all data to be free and the users choice.  I would like to make an animation style piece that can be projected onto a plain background and have people able to interact with it and be able to change the QR codes themselves, and scan them to have a message pop up saying “Thank you for helping us put a stop to the government surveillance”. Then a link to a CCTV camera in the room to show that no matter how defiant you are someone is always watching. The use of real camera data will also show how data is always around us and how you never truly know who is watching or collecting your data.
